Marcoster/behavior key tap (#1142)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/behaviors/key-tap.md

---
title: Key Tap Behavior
sidebar_label: Key Tap
---

## Summary

> The key tap behavior is a combination of key press and release on just pressing the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key tap behavior is similar to [key press](key-press.md), but key tap will press _and then immediately release_ the key (even if the physical key remains held down).
```

> All keycodes including modifiers can be used the same way as with the key press behavior (so standard keycodes are sent for press/release).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All [keycodes](../codes/index.mdx) (including modifiers) can be used the same way as with the [key press](key-press.md) behavior.
```

> It is usefull if you want to make a layout that has the same keycode with and without a modifier close together, e.g. `[` and `{`.
> 
> Since `LBRC` is basically just `LSHIFT(LBKT)` it can happen, that you still hold `{` while using `[` which leads to a missed keycode since the base-key is still pressed.
> 
> By immediately releasing the key with key tap this is circumvented.

Reviewer: This is a great tip that I think would be nice wrapped up inside a "tip" box, with a link to the GitHub thread tracking the issue. 

I personally find the simplified `+=` example from the GitHub thread is a little clearer to comprehend than the more detailed `{[` brackets example, but it's also then consistent when clicking through to GitHub.

```suggestion
:::tip

Key tap is useful if you experience issues when rolling keys that share a base keycode.

For example, a common programming bigram is `+=`. Behind the scenes, `+` is produced with `SHIFT` and `=`. So typing the keys `+` and `=` too quickly can sometimes result in one of them being ignored since the base-key is still pressed. However, by immediately releasing the key with key tap this issue is circumvented.

See [zmkfirmware/zmk #1076](https://github.com/zmkfirmware/zmk/issues/1076) for a thread tracking this.

:::
```

The above suggestion looks like this on my local environment:

<img width="964" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60922914/170971166-cdb2f381-ba5e-43b9-94e6-e502ed8eec8d.png">

### Behavior Binding

- Reference: `&kt`

> - Parameter: The keycode usage ID from the usage page, e.g. `LBTK` or `A`

Reviewer: Typo here? (`LBTK` is not a valid keycode.)

However, if we're changing the above tip we could keep this example consistent? e.g.:

```suggestion
- Parameter: The keycode usage ID from the usage page, e.g. `PLUS` or `A`
```
